---
layout: post
title: Journal 11/05/15
category: Practice
---

If I am going to build a life that I want I need to get better at defining what I need to be doing day to day.

Work on my whys and relevant metrics of what I am trying to accomplish.

I need to list the things I do and try to figure out what my issues are. Where I fail.

I need to start believing I can accomplish what I need to accomplish.

I need to stop waiting for tomorrow.

It appears that goal setting even though it gives me direction it leads to frustration. I need to revert back to working on habits instead. I gave it a good try but things have gotten worse not better in my life.

Finally I need to add an important distinction for myself and instead of thinking "I want to be thin" to "I want to start the things it takes to be thin"

....I took a break from this. I had to figure out a way to put my pride aside and do what's best for me.

As always I want to jump in hardcore but I always fail when I do that.

OK, I need small habits I can implement. The good news some of these habits are already semi setup so I don't have to just add one habit, but I should not overdo it.

I already know what the end game should look like which is helpful.

Think, think, think.

There are three things I want to do here. All three things that there to support my dreams.

So this looks like this

Dream -> Habits

All habits need reasoning of why I am implementing them so I can reference my reasoning during bad times. Reasoning is #1. Good metrics is #2, Tracking is #3

My reasoning comes from my dreams and why will the habit help with that dream.

Metrics will help figure out what I need to focus on, in a way metrics and habits intertwin.

I have a tracking mechanism in place to count my habit compliance but I need to expand it as I go.

Oh, I should also add a Do / Do Not do list for my habit. Triggers for all the habits so I can do them at the appropriate times based on pre-set triggers....which means that's #4.

Reasoning is #1. Good metrics is #2, Tracking is #3. Triggers #4, Do - Do Not Do as I discover reasons of why my habits are not followed etc.

I will hold off on the metrics for now, I am running out of time for the day so I will figure it out tomorrow. I know that my metrics sometimes suck so might as well wait.

Also I should change my wording. Cue = trigger, Routine = habit, Reward = Reasoning. This will match the Power of Habit book

Dream: Have an amazing, awe inspiring body and be healthy

First habit is pretty much established solid, I just need to track it

Cue: Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday at 6:30
Routine: Gym 4 times a week
Reward: Increase of lean body mass and strength, increase in testosterone, improve health markers, great stress relief, confidence boost, sexual performance boost, metabolic increase, enjoyable
Metrics: 

Cue: Floss when you turn on your shower water and wait for it to warm up
Routine: Floss
Reward: Better oral health, better breath, correlation between flossing and less heart attacks
Metrics:

Cue: There is no cue for this....I need counter cues for not eating crap or identify my crap eating cues so I can change the routine and provide the same reward....
Routine: Eat 2540 calories or less
Reward: Less than my TDEE, fat loss, avoid binging, improve health markers, confidence boost, sexual performance boost, confidence boost, your dick will look bigger, better stamina
Metrics:

I run out of time, but this is a good base. Things I have been doing all along but I can concentrate on them a bit more. Journaling, meditation, and being a good parent needs to be added, but those can wait...well I don't have to actively track them.

Before I forget my tracking of these habits needs to include any cues that mess me up and I have to replace them with positive routines. This primarily applies to eating 2540 calories or less. 


