---
layout: post
title: Journal 09/21/15
category: Practice
---

##Stats

Weight: 275.6

Sleep: 7.5hrs

Macros (P/C/F): 211 / 261 / 41 (Goal: 210 / 236 / 35)

Calories: 2257 (Goal: 2100)

Physical Exercise: Gym

Leg Day

| Exercise         | Reps                | Weight      | Actual Reps |
| :--------------- | :-----------------: | :---------: | :-------: |
| Squats       | x3-4                | 330         |  |
|                  | + 1                 | 295         |  |
| Calf Raises            | x14-16              | 345         |  |
|                  | + 2                 |  310        |  |
| OHP | x20                  | 95        |  |

#Weekly Goal Win/Learn

Weekly Goals 9/14/15

- [ ] Lose 3 lbs, hitting 271
- [x] Setup your blog domain / etc
- [ ] Write 1 well researched article in your blog
- [x] Keep focusing on goal attainment and win/learn
- [ ] Meditate 50 minutes this week (Current: 20 / 50)
- [ ] Make 5 comments on other blogs

Sigh.

This pains me. Last time I worked with goals a similar picture emerged. At that point was so emotionally attached to my goal performance it made me depressed. It's been a year or more since that experiment and I must admit some of that pain is still there.

The thing that gets me is that I could have completed all of these goals, but I did not. I can't figure out if I am just bad at goal planning or executing. Perhaps instead of aiming for the stars I need to aim for the ground. Do that long enough until I can start aiming a bit higher.

Maybe I am just rushing things.

The face is I met 2 out of me 6 goals. All of them are linked to my 7 monthly goals. Maybe I have too many goals and I need to downsize....at least until I get the hang of it.

It scares me though. There is just so much that needs to be done and such little time.

I call this section win / learn because I do not want to associate failure with being a loser, instead I want to make it a learning experience.

So what can I learn from this?

For the last two weeks I have not hit even 50% of the goals I have set. Logically it means I am trying to balance too many things at the same time. Ironically this list does not even track other things that I am trying to accomplish like cleaning everyday, being a good father etc.

So, what I am learning is that I am not super human yet.

For this week, let's simplify to just the core elements, what's most important right now, then the rest I can do if I have the time. I need to setup my habits better so they require less discipline, that's for sure.

Both Tim Ferriss and Arnold Schwazenneger talk about starting with small goals, easy wins and then working up as you gain confidence. As a side benefit it also means you can setup more realistic goals are you go.

Weekly Goals 09/21/15
- [ ] Lose 1 lb, from 275.6 to 274.6
- [ ] Make 2 journal entries this week

Let's do this.

If nothing else this will set a good baseline I can compare things against.

This does not mean I should allow myself to slack off because my goals are simpler. Time to impress myself.

#Action

I went to the gym shortly after I analyzed my weekly goals and while doing Squats I came to a realization.

I try to avoid pain more than I want to accomplish my goals.

All of this constant seeking of a fix comes from wanting to avoid pain. It seems like my whole quest is to try to find a way to experience no pain and still succeed. Basically I am looking for a system, a super powerful winning combination that will allow me to get what I want without suffering.

I thought I was immune to magic pill seeking after this long but a core assumption has been uncovered. The problem is not the system I use. There is no other system that will fix everything. It's me.

There was a strip in XKCD that has stuck with me for a while. [Comic #1027](https://xkcd.com/1027/)

To me this is not about pickup artist stuff but about figuring out how to fix my life. Her response has always struck me as a core observation of how I feel at times of doubt.

> You look like you're going to spend your life having one epiphany after another, always thinking you've finally figured out what's holding you back, and how you can finally be productive and creative and turn your life around. But nothing will ever change. That cycle of mediocrity isn't due to some obstacle. It's who you are. The thing standing in the way of your dreams is; that the person having them is you.

Interestingly enough after this realization I felt relieved. For a pretty long time now, the last two years I have been looking for the way to overcome being obese. I felt that by figuring that out, all my other dreams would be relatively easy.

So I researched, tweaked, tried different things but finally after all that time I uncovered a core belief that is actually not true.

I am not saying there are no bad or good methods. An optimal and suboptimal way of doing things. However there are no easy, pain free solutions to big  problems.

To put it another way, the only way I could Squat 4*335 today was by squating 3*335 last week. There are tweaks in form, mobility fixes, they are all helpful but the thing is you still have to squat.

I was looking for a solution, for a diet that I get to lose weight but I never got hungry and got to eat the fatty, high carb foods I like.

Thinking that I want to squat 335 and not get fatigued sounds silly. Why do I have that expectation out of my diet.

It feels like I cannot express how monumental that discovery was today, but it's huge.

My brain still looks for outs, but now I know that I need to embrace the pain of discomfort, the challenges of losing weight and try to enjoy them...because that is the answer to everything.

Hard work and sacrifice.

#Self Discipline

I ate two bagels I did not need to eat. However after my realization about pain I still thought that I might still be able to eat the rice I had even though it would be too many carbs.

The bad habits are there, the I will do this tomorrow. However using my new realization I just ate chicken like I was supposed to.

#Be Present

Meditated for 20 minutes today. First 10 went fast, the next 10 a bit slower and not as focused. Overall I had a great session.

Also I was very present and aware while I was hanging out with the kids.

It was a good day

#Creative Gratitude

I am grateful that I was upset today, it allowed me to make a huge discovery about myself.
