---
layout: post
title: Journal 09/26/15
category: Practice
---
Friday I did well. Followed my diet pretty closely but not perfectly.

For Saturday I took the time to figure out my meals and wrote them down so I can have a steady template, yet I still ate like crap.

It appears that the discovery of the pain avoidance principle, the crying and yelling at myself while figuring things out on Thursday amounted to a few days of compliance.

As such, I need to analyze myself a bit deeper. I really don't have that much time. I need to do this or give up, and I know that I am not about to give up.

Niko, drop your walls and truly self-reflect please.

What happened today? I took the girls to the park, I wanted them to have some lunch with me so we got subs. I got a tuna fish sandwich thinking that it's fish, I missed the it's fucking full of mayo part, which I mysteriously did not think about.

Suddenly the day plan I had came apart. Now the solution should have been to eat a really good, healthy dinner, but since I had fucked up already I decided to go out at Friendly's, eat a BBQ Sandwich and share a banana split with the girls.

It appears that I break my diets for one of the following reasons

*My wife wants to get take out and I join her, because I feel bad if I do not.
*I want to take the kids out on a date, which involves eating and I eat unhealthy
*After I eat a meal at work that I have prepared, I am still hungry, and eat something from the cabinets (it's all sweets and chips)
*Being really hungry in the morning and eating something bad, which cascades to the whole day being bad
*Family or I want to have breakfast, or my wife. My LeanGains eating window gets messed up which makes me feel like I can invalidate my diet for the day
*Used to be dinner made by my wife was very tasty and I ate too much if I participated...I would usually participate to avoid feeling like I am was not part of the dinner meal
*Munching food while making food for the kids
*Eating leftovers from the kids for meals they did not finish
*Being at a social engagement/party/meeting
*Having people over at our house for dinner

OK, now I have a list of my triggers.

What is my mental proccess for this?

*If my family eats, including my wife, I feel like I need to eat the same thing
*If I go out on a date with my wife or kids, I feel like I need to eat something, when I make that decision I always end up eating bad.
*I eat fast, so when I finish a meal I still feel hungry. This leads to post meal snacking, either kid leftovers, sweets at work
*If I have a small infraction I feel like the whole day is messed up and I make it much worse. There have been times that a handful of peanuts or half a PB&J sandwich have led to 1,500 calorie meals from Olive Garden
*There used to be bad habits for eating certain things from certain places. So going to a gas station meant getting a chocolate bar, chips, beef jerkey and a coke. Mostly I have overcome that...unless I participate in eating out. I still have habitual preferences there
*Undocumented food consuption while making food for the kids makes me feel like I am not 100% compliant and it is more likely to make me stray even further as the day progresses
*Social pressure in food gatherings
*Once I start eating bad it's really hard to stop
*If I do mess up I sometimes try to not eat anything else for the day, eventually I get hungry. That leads to eating something bad yet again, instead of what I would have normally eaten for that meal
*Occasionally not having cooked chicken in the house leads to bad days

I am seeing some patterns here. 

*My triggers are based on the idea that, if I do not eat with others, family or friends I feel like I am not participating.
*Loose eating and tracking has a cascading effect. I have come to the realization that I work in very black and white modes in terms of my behavior
*I feel that food should not be wasted so I consume it
*A bad start leads to a whole bad day, I very rarely recover or correct my course

I have not mentioned cravings yet. They are there, it's what usually leads to snacking. I have started putting tempting foods in a drawer. That has helped a lot. If I can see food I am much more likely to consume it.

Come to think of it, the sweets and chips at work are all in cabinets. I should treat the cabinets the same way I tread my kitchen drawer at home.

What's the fix?

I have to opposing perspectives here. One mindset says, start small and progressively make things more strict and complex. As in, allow yourself to snack, reduce snacking slowly along with everything else to make things more strict.

The other mindset is, go hardcore. If I only eat what I have planned and allow for no exceptions then the cascading effect will not be there. Most of the time I either have perfect days or horrible days.

The catch here is the hardcore mindset has a weakness. If I have even a small infraction in the hardcore mindset mode I consider the whole day a waste and totally eat unhealthy, high fat, high sugar stuff.

The start small mindset almost expects bad days. At the same time, it also produces them frequently.

I am doing something right now that is rare for me. I am scanning myself internally to figure out what my gut feel is on this instead of purely relying on logic.

The only good reference point I have about diets is that when I became vegeterian I went very black and white. I just stopped eating meat, I would improvise in certain situations but I remained meat free for four years. I only messed up once and that was when I got a broccolli dish, but it was chicken and broccoli and I was stuck in a train for 2 hours.

I need to go hardcore. I have thougth about this previously, but when I have I have tried to implement it, I always allow for little things, little snacks, a few potato chips, a handful of peanuts, a quarter of a sandwich the kids did not eat.

That's not good enough.

I can ONLY eat what I am scheduled to eat. The habit for meal planning is there. As long as I make sure I have chicken available I am pretty much set in terms of meal planning.

Which means I cannot allow myself to be swayed by social gatherings of any sort, including my family. I need to convince myself that this will work the same way it works when I go to a restaurant with people. If they are eating a dish, I do not feel compelled to match exactly what they are having.

This should also apply for food in general. Since I am no longer eating dinners with my family due to my new schedule and what the kids eat for lunch is totally unrelated to my meals this should be relatively easy.

In the event of an emergency or going out on a date with my wife...what do I do then? I think not eating anything seems crazy, but eating horrible food also sucks. I have tried only ordering chicken salad, but it's not a habit so I pretty much forget to do it.

I don't want to plan on having cheat days because I have them often enough by lack of willpower. If I had a cheat day, it should actually be a cheat meal. In an ideal world if I was 100% strict I would be OK on having a cheat meal once every two weeks.

However I have not been, so it feels silly to do it. If I do allow myself to have cheat meals it becomes a "is this meal my cheat meal" and even if I plan on having it at a specific frequency it occurrs way more often than that.

This issue is augmented by the fact that I go out on dates with my wife and my kids weekly for both, sometimes even three times in a week.

I pretty much need to eat grilled chicken salads for those days and plan on them. My focus needs to become ordering chicken salads.

To re-iterate.

Be 100% strict, for dates only eat grilled chicken salad, no cheese or croutons, dressing on the side.

Ignore social pressure or food waste.

Treat the work cabinets the same way you treat the snack drawer at home.

To simplify even further, eat only what you plan for in the morning. In events of extreme emergency eat to minimize the damage, not free form. 

If things go well I can start adding a cheat meal once every two weeks, but first I need to have at least two good weeks before I even think about it...
