---
layout: post
title: Journal 09/18/15
category: Practice
---

##Stats

Weight: 272.6

Sleep: 7.5hrs

Macros (P/C/F):  197 / 212 / 83 (Goal: 248 / 90 / 50)

Calories:  2383 (Goal: 1800)

Physical Exercise: Running

##Action

Today’s ToDo

- [x] Complete Birt Runner helper class to accept var args
- [x] Start and hopefully complete Employee Type report
- [ ] Jekyll theme setup
- [x] Write Journal entry for yesterday
- [x] Write Journal entry for today
- [x] Run
- [x] Macros
- [x] Mobility
- [x] Meditate 10m
- [x] Time Card

Today was difficult. Not sure if it’s because it’s Friday or because I got stuck working and did not spend enough time to work on my habits until the very end of the day.

It's so easy to be mindless, and do nothing. It's almost like it's the natural state of the world. From an energy conservation point of view it makes sense, but I got shit to do.

This is what discipline is about, doing it even when you don’t feel like it.

##Self-Discipline

Then again, today was rough food wise, maybe I should say, not optimal. I had Chipotle for lunch and it kind of put me in a weird nutrition place where I was going to go over my carbs. Normally this is OK, but my mind is the great deceiver.

“If you are off with your macros might as well eat chocolate and cookies that you have been craving.” So here I am, a chocolate bar and 6 oreo cookies later.

I did not go over my hard limit of 2800 cals, but I still wish I did better.

This is my eternal struggle. One day I will figure out how to overcome it. Until that day I will keep on trying. 

If there is one thing I have learned through this obstacle in my life is persistence. I keep trying again and again. Soon enough this will become easy.

##Be Present

l hit pretty good flow states today once I concentrated enough to actually work.

The plan is to meditate right after I finish this entry, but I feel at peace so I think it will be OK.

##Creative Gratitude

Life is so wonderful if you stop and take a breath. It has a melody that you can hear in everything. 

We get so caught up with what we want, what we think others want from us, our frustrations...anger, hate, mysery...but there is so much more in life.

Life is a melody and it sounds like this

<iframe width="420" height="315" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/W5_xFH5wqKM" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

