---
layout: post
title: Journal 10/07/15
category: Practice
---

Weight: 274.4

Sleep: 7

Macros (P/C/F): 244 / 221 / 66 (Goal: 210 / 237 / 35)

Calories: 2454 (Goal: 2100)

Physical Exercise: Gym

| Exercise         | Reps                | Weight      | Actual Reps |
| :--------------- | :-----------------: | :---------: | :-------: |
| Deadlifts        | x2-3                | 405         | 2 |
|                  | + 1                 | 365         | 3 |
| Chins            | x4-5                | 245         | 5 |
|                  | + 1                 |  220        | 6 |
| Close Grip Chins | x8                  | 240         | 7 |

#Action

ToDo

- [x] Write entry for today
- [x] Create a role models visual list, start collecting info about the mindset and techniques they employed to get there
- [x] Gym
- [x] Macros
- [x] Mobility
- [x] Meditate 10m

Did pretty well today. My action sprints seem to be working favorably. They allow me to hit flow really well. To make it a bit more fun I set a little mini goal for the sprint. Enough to make it fun. 

Mini goals also appear to be helping me, it adds a bit of a "can I do this?" type of fun. Perhaps part of the reason why mini goals are fun is I don't always expect to complete them.

One of my close friends said to me "Goals are like little games to keep yourself busy in between life". That's pretty much what my mini goals are, little games to keep me entertained while I work.

On another note I deadlifted 405lbs today. A pretty significant milestone. I experimented a little bit with my technique based on a youtube video I watched recently with Layne Norton. I might have been able to do another rep if I was not tweaking my form.

#Discipline

I have been eating a bit more calories even though I have not adjust my goal calories yet. On average about 400 calories more on Workout and Rest Days. The plan was to not change anything this month and see how things go but I realized that my caloric goal plan has always been "start low, and raise your calories to lose about 1.5lbs a week". 

Perhaps that is the reason why I get so hungry which leads to eating bad. So I bumped up the calories, that way my hunger will be diminished.

Today is day 3, which means yet again tomorrow is my danger day where my motivation is most likely to wane.

Wish me luck.

#Be Present

My meditation session did not go well. My mind wandered a lot and did not return to being present as quickly as I would have liked.

I keep noticing how I am naturally paying more attention to people lately. This is definitely improving my internal mind and emotional state. As a bonus it appears that it's also improving my awareness of others, their body language, eye movement etc. I am not as good as my wife, she is some kind of a social ninja, but there have definitely been improvements.

#Creative Gratitude

I am grateful that I have had a good three days.

I am grateful that my wife is there to support me when I need it the most.

I am grateful that my kids jump up and down from happiness when they see me come home.

/

