---
layout: post
title: Journal 09/17/15
category: Practice
---

##Stats

Weight: 273.4

Sleep: 7.5hrs

Macros (P/C/F): 234 / 279 / 38 (Goal: 240 / 270 / 40)

Calories: 2394 (Goal: 2400)

Physical Exercise: Gym

Back Day

| Exercise | Reps | Weight | Actual Reps |
| :------------- | :-------: | :---------: | :-------: |
| Deadlifts | x2-3 | 395 | 3 |
| | + 1 | 355 | 4 |
| Chins    | x4-5       | 240          | 4 |
| | + 1| 215 | 5 |
| Close Grip Chins | x8        . | 230      . | 8      .|


##Action

Today’s ToDo

- [x] Work: Figure out tree conflict issue
- [x] Work: Start working on report tables
- [x] Work: Make a custom Next interface that implements the method next()
- [x] Work: Make another runReport that extends the interface
- [x] Win/Learn from last weekly goals

- [ ] Jekyll theme setup
- [x] Write Journal entry for yesterday

- [x] Gym
- [x] Macros
- [x] Mobility
- [x] Meditate 10m
- [x] Time Card
- [x] Water Plants

I have had the ToDo of Win/Learn from the last weekly goals for 3 days now.  This is avoidance, which pretty much means I need to do it.

Weekly Goals 9/7/15

- [  ] Lose 2.2 lbs, hitting 271
- [  ] Setup your blog domain / etc
- [  ] Write 1 well researched article in your blog
- [x] Keep focusing on goal attainment and win/learn
- [  ] Meditate 5 times this week
- [  ] Make 5 comments on other blogs
- [x] Ping 2 friends

Overall this was my 2nd week of weekly goal planning with this iteration. My issues were with setting up this blog and weight loss.

I had a realization while meditating today. Having a goal setup to count the number of times I meditate in a week makes sense, however I am also content with meditating against a predetermined time. Theoretically speaking 10 minutes of meditation, 5 times a week is 50 minutes.

Am I bothered if I meditate for 50 minutes or 10 minutes 5 times? In other words what is the why of this goal? Primarily it's to attain the ability to be fully present more frequently at work, my personal life, when I am with my kids. Pretty much while I am conscious I want to be aware.

Meditation is one of the tools being utilized to attain a better awareness of the present moment. Ideally I would meditate 5 times, to pretty much have an almost daily reminder and practise of being present. However If I missed a day, but meditated 20 minutes the next would that be considered a failure to attain my actual “why?” I don't think so.

There is a small trap that I must point out. The trap is "I won't meditate today, and I will tomorrow" and suddenly I might find myself having to meditate for 50 minutes to capture the entire week in one sitting. At the same time I kind of like the "punishment" potential of this. It would suck, which means it would cause pain, hopefully enough of a pain that I would want to avoid the situation.

As such for my current weekly and monthly goal I can convert the number of meditation practices to minutes. This also means I have a chance to catch up for any days missed by simply meditating longer.


##Self-Discipline

I had a realization today, discipline is about increasing your self-discipline strength. In the gym it's all about reps, the more reps you complete the stronger you get. What if I started counting reps when I deny myself tempting foods that are not part of my macros for the day?

I like this idea. I grabbed an index card, labeled it "Self Discipline Reps" and off we go with this experiment.

It reminds me of the counting streaks idea. Where everyday you execute a habit you put a check mark, and you see how long your streak is for that habit based on the number of continuous days you have acted on it. This is different though. It's not about streaks, but about increasing strength, my strength of will.

##Be Present

Meditated pretty well. Reminded myself to be more present.

Being present while working is becoming easier. I hit flow states more frequently.  A lot of things are contributing to this. Establishing the discipline to not multitask is huge. There are various ways I use to accomplish this. 

Most of my Skype notifications are turned off and only trigger if my name is mentioned or the word meeting. I have removed all bookmarks of my time wasting websites including social media so I have to manually type them. On top of that I use a plugin called [StayFocusd](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/stayfocusd/laankejkbhbdhmipfmgcngdelahlfoji?hl=en){:target=”_blank”}  that allows me to limit how much time I do spent on my time wasting sites. My initial setup had my time limited to 45 minutes, it’s now 15.

##Creative Gratitude

I am grateful that today was a good day.

I am grateful that my children bring a smile to my face.

I am grateful that I have weaknesses that are noticeable enough to be acted upon.

