---
layout: post
title: Journal 09/29/15
category: Practice
---

Weight: 273.8

Sleep: 7.5hrs

Macros (P/C/F): 212 / 232 / 38 (Goal: 210 / 237 / 35)

Calories: 2118 (Goal: 2100)

Physical Exercise: Gym

Back Day

| Exercise         | Reps                | Weight      | Actual Reps |
| :--------------- | :-----------------: | :---------: | :-------: |
| Deadlifts        | x2-3                | 400         | 3 |
|                  | + 1                 | 360         | 4 |
| Chins            | x4-5                | 245         | 3 |
|                  | + 1                 |  220        | 4 |
| Close Grip Chins | x8                  | 240         | 6 |

#Action

ToDo

- [x] Write journal entry for today
- [x] Publish yesterday's journal entry
- [x] Take kids on a date
- [x] Grocery shop
- [x] Gym
- [x] Macros
- [x] Mobility
- [x] Meditate 10m

Another busy day today. Grocery shopping, taking the kids on a date and working out ends up being too much. My work suffers.

My daily habits such as mobility and meditation I kind of stalled.

It sucks that my weight went up a tiny bit. It's not a huge concern. It appears that when I start eating well week 2 sometimes has weird ups and downs. There is a "whoosh effect" theory that says that fat cells fill up with water after the initial fat loss. After that it appears to normalize since the process is continued.

It's a little hump and we shall see what happens by the end of the week.

For my gym training today was a good day. Nothing like lifting really heavy for Deadlifts. In my right ear I hear this popping noise the past two times I have attempted 400lbs. Initially I thought it might be from clentching my jaw, however paying attention to my jaw muscles that does not seem to be the case.

Progress still seems to be there but I am no longer putting 5lbs on a week. It's probably a mixture of cutting properly and hitting my maximum capacity for growth. Obviously it's impossible to keep putting 5lbs on the bar forever.

#Discipline

The tendency to want to snack it's still there. I have to fight it tooth and nail. Today was better than yesterday, I hope that tomorrow it will be even better.

Adding Cocoa Puffs, a favorite of mine to my macros has given me something to look forward to. I was hoping that my home made protein bars would also help with that, however I was wrong. Even with a flavored protein they taste is OK, but not that great. I was trying to avoid eating quest bars daily, but it might be something I end up doing.

Today I also felt hungrier than usual. I had saved up some of my calories for my date with my daughters but it made me lower my calories earlier in the day and avoiding carbs. That's probably one of the reasons why I was so tempted to snack. Grocery shopping did not help either.

#Be Present

I had concentration issues today. Also I felt anger from having to deal with the rain, two young kids in the grocery store and having to buy a bunch of liter containers that are ackward to carry, especially in the rain.

I attempted to calm myself down. At least I had the mindfulness to notice my emotional state. I ended up bottling up for my Deadlifts right after my grocery shopping. I am not sure if that is the right way to do it, but hey I just did a new PR, which means next time I will attempt 405lbs, 4 plates.

#Creative Gratitude

I am grateful I get pushed everyday by having to balance my life goals, my family and work. It sometimes feels really hard but they are all important and they all require for me to put my time in and try my best.
