---
layout: post
title: Journal 09/16/15
---

##Stats

Weight: 274.8

Sleep: 6.5hrs

Macros (P/C/F): 249 / 85 / 48 (Goal: 248 / 90 / 50)

Calories: 1768 (Goal: 1800)

Physical Exercise: Run (didn’t actually do it)

##Action

Today’s ToDo

- [ ] Win/Learn from last weekly goals
- [x] Document on how to setup Design View and Create a report based on Helper class...
- [ ] Jekyll theme setup
- [x] Write Journal entry for yesterday
- [x] Dentist appt
- [x] Grocery shopping
- [ ] Run
- [x] Macros
- [x] Mobility
- [x] Meditate 10m
- [x] Time Card

Another very busy day. Day 2 of my new schedule. Between work, my dentist appointment, grocery shopping and work I was pretty exhausted by the end of it.


With this schedule and the expectations I have of myself it’s a challenge to accomplish everything, but rewarding.


I enjoy taking care of the kids in the morning. Today I had to be in a meeting in the morning so I was trying to pay attention and take care of the kids simultaneously. I did not want to wake up my wife since she seems to need the rest more than I need silence during a meeting.


Of course that led to be becoming frustrated with the kids.


The lack of a good night’s sleep did not help. It never does. It took me a long time to figure out that if I want to be productive, more creative and more patient I need to sleep 7.5 hours or more. Any potential benefits I might gain by doing more and sleeping less is negated the next day.


Sleep is also important for weight lifting reasons so sleep is pretty much a basic habit that allows me to get closer to all my dreams and goals.


I got home at 10:15, by that time I really did not feel like running. I caught myself thinking that perhaps I should not run anymore on this new schedule. However, from previous experience I know that decisions like that should not be made in the heat of the moment or during periods of self-doubt.


I still do not know if I can run and do everything else. I can debate about this in the next two days, since I have to go to the gym tomorrow and run the day after. We shall see.


From a health perspective I really like the idea of running. Time wise it takes me about 30 minutes. The plan is not to run marathons but just run 3 miles, which right now I cannot accomplish. Ideally my goal here is to run faster, not run more miles. All those decisions will be made as I progress of course. Taking action always simplifies a lot of these decisions since it tends to illuminate the proper path.


For now I am following the couch to 5k (C25K), and I am on week 4.


##Self-Discipline


Did well today in terms of eating and resisting temptations. A side benefit from working in the afternoon is that I avoid eating dinner with my family and being at home. 


I am not 100% sure that willpower drain is legit or not, but the tendencies to eat well during the day and fuck it all up at night is definitely there. Part of it has to do with my wife making very tasty food, the other is probably boredom.


Of course, when someone messes up their diet they tend to lose their shit and go all out. I am definitely guilty of that. Occasionally done, it’s not a big deal, but if it happens three or four times in a week you end up going backwards.


Anyway, following this new schedule, work, child-care and writing in this blog is keeping my fully occupied so I have to continue doing everything I need to do. Another key is to not overdo it and burn out, which will lead to backtracking in everything.


##Be Present


My meditation practise went well. For some awkward reason I started having sexual thoughts in the middle of it. Snapping out of it was difficult.

This has happened before. Not really sure of the exact cause.


Aside from that I try to focus and be present when I am working. I also have an hourly reminder set on my phone. Part of that reminder is to remind myself to be present. It works well for about five seconds...

As a developer I tend to go in my head too frequently so stopping to smell the roses is a key to balancing myself out.

I can tell that my meditation practice and the reminders are paying off, slowly. I am more mindful of others, my environment, and even my own thought process. It’s an interesting experience for someone that primarily relies on intuition.

##Creative Gratitude


I am grateful that I get to spend more quality time with my kids, even if it’s because of complications.

I am grateful that I don’t have a lot of free time, this allows me to time manage better, value my free time more and also get closer to accomplishing my dreams.
