---
layout: post
title: Journal 09/28/15
category: Practice
---

Weight: 273.6

Sleep: 7.5hrs

Macros (P/C/F): 282 / 125 / 65 (Goal: 280 / 102 /57)

Calories: 2213 (Goal: 2036)

Physical Exercise: none

#Weekly Goal Win/Learn - Week 09/21

- [x] Lose 1 lb, from 275.6 to 274.6
- [x] Make 2 journal entries this week (6 out of 2)

I completed both of my goals. Check that out. This might be the first time this has happened ever in my life.

How cool is that?

I actually lost 2 lbs overall. I weigh 273.6 as of this morning and made 6 entries instead of 2.

Completing goals is nice, what did I learn from it?

Well, the point of this week was to setup a goal I could easily achieve. Theoretically as I get a bunch of early wins I will be able to gain confidence in my goal setting and achieving ability and proceed from there.

In practise I am hoping that something better will happen. I believe that my previous goals were unrealistic because I had no actual experience attaining the results I wanted.. By starting small I get to see what is possible then continue to improve my methods in achieving even bigger results.

If my goal was to lose 3 lbs, like it was last week and I lost 1.5lbs it feels like I failed. However if my goal is to lose 1lb and I lose 2lbs it feels good. I now know that losing 2lbs in one week is possible even if my diet is not 100% tight.

Granted some goals like weight loss do hit stall points, vary week to week etc. However by having a good base for what is possible I can expand on it. Furthermore if a goal does not work out but I followed the steps correctly I would be able to more accurately figure out what tweaks I might have to make.

This week I will try the same thing, set goals that I consider easy.

Weekly Goals 09/28/15
- [ ] Lose 1.5lbs, from 273.6 to 272.1
- [ ] Make 3 journal entries this week
- [ ] Meditate 20 minutes this week

#Action

ToDo

- [x] Write journal entry for today
- [x] Upload last week's journal entries
- [x] Goal win/learn
- [ ] Sprint
- [x] Macros
- [x] Mobility
- [x] Meditate 10m

I had a lot of meetings for work. That kept me pretty busy so not a lot of personal action was taken.

My focus has been to read more. Currenntly it's a book called "The Pragmatic Programmer" by Andrew Hunt and David Thomas. An interesting book, but I will not claim it's ground breaking. I am about half way through already and there is maybe a couple of new ideas that I might take from it.

I also realized that I should continue focusing on my diet and journaling and pretty much put everything in the back burner. I keep trying to expand too quick and fall on my face because my whole day is full. As a side benefit this will allow me to become a better developer since I can put some more time for work instead of spending time on other projects while working.

I am still trying to hit my habits, but goal wise I am trying to stick with the basics.

The plan for today in terms of exercise was to do sprints, it did not happen. My legs still hurt from squats yesterday. I am not really sure how to fit things in. When I was running my workouts suffered. Now it seems that my workouts still suffer due to muscular pain from sprints. Theoretically speaking I should give myself 24 hours between sprint work and working out.

My hope is that if I avoid the day before and after squats I should still be able to get a couple or more sprints in. We shall see how it goes as this week progresses.

On another interesting development it appears that I am now starting to work on my goals and habits at home, something that I have been avoiding. I am getting used to completing most of my ToOo list so if there is only a couple of things outstanding I feel compelled to complete them.

#Discipline

I did well. I feel a bit more fortified against temptation. Kind of messed it up dinner tonight because I thought to myself that I can eat one cup of spinach instead of three and eat a little bit of white pizza (no cheese or sauce). However it turns out the calories from white pizza are for more significant than spinach. I knew this, but at that moment it did not matter.

Once again the proof is there, making decisions or substitutions on the fly is not good. 

I am not upset since it appears that I am still learning but I do not want to make the same mistake again. 

It also seems that adding a few of my pleasurable food and snacks to my daily meals is helpful. Right now it's cocoa puffs. They fit my macros on both rest and workout days so I have been enjoying that. I think trying to be 100% healthy made me kind of dislike what I was eating. Now I get to look forward to certain guilt free indulgences.

Probably as time progresses there will be less of a need for them. For now however they are great.

I experimented with a protain bar recipe and used unflavored protein which made it kind of suck. I will try again tomorrow with some chocolate protein powder to see how it turns out. Even with the unflavored protain I could tell that the consistency and taste were well balanced. The unflavored protein was just cancelling everything by being a rather neutral, chalk taste. Which means this recipe can only get better.

#Be Present

Meditation went OK. I felt tired, which made my mind not be very crisp.

I did not remind myself to be present except for when I was trying to feel the baby kick in my wife's belly. He or she is only 17 weeks which means I would probably not be able to feel them, but my wife could. I tried and took some deep breaths to fully be present for the experience. It felt peaceful and wonderful.

During meetings it's hard to stay present but I had to lead four of them today, which pretty much occupies me mentally full time. I can't really claim that I hit flow states.

#Creative Gratitude

I am grateful that I have struggled achieving my goals for so long because now I am able to celebrate even the small wins.

I am grateful that my wife is sick because I am able to take care of her and share with her how much I love her through actions.

I am grafetul that my kids can be bratty and independent. It means that they will stand their ground. I hope I distill confidence in who they are and a willingness to work hard.
