---
layout: post
title: Journal 10/09/15
category: Practice
---

Weight: 274.4

Sleep: 7.5

Macros (P/C/F): 226 / 291 / 80 (Goal: 210 / 237 / 35)

Calories: 2780 (Goal: 2100)

Physical Exercise: Gym - Chest


| Exercise         | Reps                | Weight      | Actual Reps |
| :--------------- | :-----------------: | :---------: | :-------: |
| Bench Press        | x4-5                | 270         | 4 |
|                  | + 1                 | 245         | 5 |
| Dips            | x4-6                | 265        | 6 |
|                  | + 1                 |  240        | 7 |
| Shrugs | x10-12                  | 175         | 14 |


#Action + Discipline

ToDo

- [x] Write entry for today
- [x] Come up with a meal plan for the family
- [x] Come up with a weekend todo
- [x] Gym
- [x] Macros
- [x] Mobility
- [x] Meditate 10m

Work has been keeping me pretty busy. At the same time I do have downtime.

It's interesting how much masturbating to porn can be time consuming. Claiming that I am addicted to porn feels like an exaggeration but it can be hard (no pun intended) to deal with it sometimes.

At some point I want to make a post about porn and it's affect on people, but for now take my word for it. Porn warps your brain and body and can cause a host of problems. I am not saying this from a religious or prudish perspective, by all means have sex and procreate.

Anyway, my being loose approach to diet has been an interesting experiment. I have been maintaining which is good. It means that my binging has calmed down a little bit and it has become more of a eat until I am hungry type of approach.

I am not sure how I want to handle things at this point in terms of my diet. It appears that a lot of people talk about making slow changes. Part of me is impatient I want to figure things out right now. I want to wake up tomorrow and suddenly I have iron will and nothing sways me from my path.

Life is not like that though.

I have been trying to form a plan on how I want to deal with slow changes to my diet. It kind of sucks that I am trying to do that now even though I have been dieting for two years but I am not consistent which is the issue.

So what kind of plan should I have???

Step 1: Eat at close to your TDEE (don't go over)

Step 2: Swap processed refined carbohydrates and saturated fats for healthier alternatives

I got stuck on the steps. The weekend came and went, so did my birthday.

The results from that

- [ ] Replace headlight, my spare headlight did not work I had to go buy new one but the store was closed.
- [x] Clean floors / mop
- [x] Clean kitchen / living room
- [ ] Pickup bedroom
- [x] Order The Hobbit for Mattie
- [x] Take Harley for a walk twice ( 1 / 2 )
- [x] Open an account at Visions

I have been thinking about the steps for a while. I did not really go over my 2,800 calorie limit because truthfully it's not that hard to not do that. Knowing that it's the only thing I have to limit myself with was nice.

At the same time it feels like a huge step backwards.

I have been doing some more research on how to be disciplined.

Here are my findings, in no particular order.

Roy F. Baumeister, PhD, author of the book Willpower: Rediscovering the Greatest Human Strength tells us, “willpower is not a personality trait, a skill or a virtue. Instead, it operates like a muscle. And as such, it can be strengthened"

* Practicing mindfulness meditation for a few minutes each day can actually boost willpower by building up gray matter in areas of the brain that regulate emotions and govern decision making.
* Exercise has been shown to improve willpower along with a host of other benefits
* Accountability
* Set smart goals
* Burn the ships
* Remove temptations
* Eliminate unnecessary decisions
* Create habits
* Starting sometimes is the hardest. Use the 5 minute rule. Do something for a minute and then go from there
* 100% commitment is much easier than 99%
* Sleep more
* Reduce stress, even a few breaths when you are stressed or tempted can help
* Change I can't to I don't. I van reminds you of your limitations
* Postpone. I will have this later allows you to be less tormented by your cravings


From Psychology Today

* Distraction is more powerful than willpower. Distract yourself
* The most effective way to distract yourself from one pleasure is with another pleasure. Read an engrossing book, watch a movie. If you can't do that then try to imagine it as vividly as possible. Or think of another kind of pleasurable food. Finally you can focus on a problem you are trying to solve. The key is to distract yourself with something that is emotionally engaging
* Plan out your distractions ahead of time
* Use willpower go create habits. Figure out your favorite healthy choice meals for a restaurant to make things automatic
* When confronted with two competing behaviors we tend to follow the one with the least resistance. Use that to your advantage. Make your good choices easy and bad choices hard to do. For example move the treadmill in the living room and put the remote batteries in an inconvenient location
* The more you repeat a behavior the more likely it is to become a habit
* We get habituated to distractions. You have to recognize when habituation arises and use a new Distraction
* Avoidance is more effective than distraction. When a cookie was removed and kids had to signal that they wanted to eat it they lasted 15 minutes. This does not have to be dramatic it can be as simple as taking a different route going home
* Accepting pain will reduce its influence on your behavior. When we try to suppress hunger it leads to binging and increase 

What's fascinating is that I have naturally come to some of these conclusions myself. It's also interesting that meditations is talked about a lot.

I put the Psychology today article separately than my others notes because it resonated with me a lot.

Today (Sunday), I had the realization that for my diet I started doing what my natural tendency is, plan and not act. By trying to figure out all the steps I have essentially stalled.

There is no need to try to decrypt the entire plan of my diet.

Instead what I will try doing it having a cheat meal every time a workout. Still plan for my meals to be perfect but allow myself to cheat, as long as I stay under 2800 calories. There are multiple reasons why I think this is OK. First of all I will get to have a cheat meal 3 times a week.

It will also make my diet days a bit more bearable because I can distract myself and think about the next day being able to eat what I crave. As time passes I will decrease my cheat meals. For now though this is the plan.

This means 4 out of 7 days I will be doing well. The key is to not have bad days and cheat days.

Let's see where that takes me.

#Be Present

Today it was raining pretty hard. Normally I dislike rain, but today I found it beautiful. I went outside and tried to stay in the moment, take it all in.

#Creative Gratitude

I am grateful that I lived another year on this Earth.

I am grateful that my wife is so good to me.

That my kids bring me joy.
