---
layout: post
title: Journal 09/24/15
category: Practice
---

##Stats

Weight: 272

Cheat meal lunch, eating at McDonalds, cascaded to eating at Olive Garden for dinner.

Searched online for the Leangains approach for cheat meals and this hit me pretty hard

> For me, the brain signals that create the desire to cheat were the same brain signals that were the reason I was fat in the first place: food addiction.
> So I don't do cheat meals if I am trying to lose weight. Ever.
> Each person's reason for cheat meals is different, but I was a junk food addict. Just like an alcoholic can't just "cheat days" and a coke abuser can't have "cheat days", a food addict has no place in their diet for cheat days.

It hit me like a ton of bricks.

.......................

I cried today. I cried so hard, I felt it in my soul.

This journal was started with the premise that I will be completely honest.

Today...today I was able to see myself for who I am. I don't mean to sound melodramatic, it's just that it's been a long time since I have cried. 

I want to be a hero, a warrior. The fucking name of this blog is a testament to that.

I don't want a fancy car, a huge house. I just want to help people. Today I realized I want to help people because I wish someone helped me.

Having searched high and low, watched videos, read, read, read, thought, analyzed, I have always looked for an answer. Something. Something that would make me have my 'aha' moment.

The wish, that things will just change, and I would get my shit together.

The truth is I am 35, turning 36 in a few weeks. Some of the stuff I have been struggling with, like my weight loss...I have been dealing with that for half my life. Still, I keep looking for a magic answer.

There is no answer.

I paced at work, alone, talking to myself, yelling, crying. I don't have time anymore. Half of my life is over. I might be dead before I reach 72, double my current age.  That's a positive outlook. I am obese, I might not make it that far if I don't change.

If I die today what will be my legacy? A half-eaten cheesecake from Olive Garden?

I refuse!

I don't want to be famous, but I do want to help my family. I do want to change the world and make it a better place.

I can't do that wallowing in self-pity or being stuck in my weight loss journey for years.

I have no time.

I need to be the warrior I am meant to be...today...right now.

I spent 36 years of my life making excuses, why "today" I don't have to live up to my own expectations. No more. I am running out of time...

When a hero tries to slay a dragon he doesn't stop and say "hmm, maybe today I should not practice sword fighting, I will eat some pizza instead"

A hero needs their rest, I know, but that's not a time to totally fuck up who you stand for.

I have no time.

I need to do this.

I need to change the world.
