---
layout: post
title: Journal 10/13/15
category: Practice
---

Weight: 275.8

Sleep: 7.5

Macros (P/C/F): 244 / 173 / 57

Calories: 2027

Physical Exercise: None

#Weekly Goals - 10/05/15

- [ ] Lose 1 lbs, from 275 to 274
- [x] Write 3 journal entries (4 / 3)
- [x] Meditate 30 minutes (40 / 30)

2 out of 3 goals hit. As always it's my weight loss that I miss. Some week I go down, others I go up. It sucks and it's frustrating but I am diving head long into making this work by reseting and making slow changes.

I came across a good image a few days ago that broke down the input for diet success. 

The breakdown was 

Consistency 0 - 100%

Calorie balance 50%

Macronutrients 30%

Nutrient Timing 10%

Food Composition 5%

Supplements 5%

The idea is that consistency underlies any measure of success, then the rest of the variables are bound by it.

Right now I am trying to be consistent, and not break my 2,800 calories. Basically be consistent with my calorie balance. Macros will come next, but I have time. First I need to get to the point that I hit my calories properly instead of aiming for sub 2,800.

Not sure if I want to go Rest / Workout - 2,031 / 2,100 or my old 1,800 / 2,400 breakdown. I can figure that out next week.

New goals for 10/12/15 week

- [ ] Eat less than 2,800 calories a day for the entire week.
- [ ] Write 3 journal entries
- [ ] Meditate 30 minutes

#Action

ToDo

- [x] Weekly Goals Win/Learn
- [x] Write entry for today
- [x] Macros
- [x] Mobility
- [x] Meditate 10m

#Self-Discipline

The day started a bit weird, I started eating a lot earlier than I normally do, then I recovered. I was going to have the perfect macro day today despite this and I realized I brought in cooked rice instead of my remaining chicken. 

I had to get creative, overall my calories were good, my macros were a bit off. This is OK, overall I count this day as a good day.

It also made me realize that I might like my eating window to be 9am to 5pm instead of 11am to 7pm. I think this might circumvent some of my binges in the morning. It also means that the worst fasting hours, which is the last couple of hours I will be busy doing things, which will lead to less of a chance to eat.

So I am kind of trying that unofficially today and on.

#Be Present

Meditation went OK. I still have sexual thoughts when I meditate. It's kind of weird but it tends to come up.

#Creative Gratitude

I am grateful that I have to humble myself and reset my diet approach so I can build a more solid base.

