---
layout: post
title: Journal 10/28/15
category: Practice
---

Weight: 273.6

Sleep: 7.5

Macros (P/C/F): 207 / 298 / 60 (goal 200 / 300 / 60)

Calories: 2560 (Goal: 2540)

I feel weird today. I have felt weird this whole week. I can't even really explain it. It's work related, I just have no motivation. Part of me wants to work hard, if I work hard at my job maybe one day I will work hard for a company I make.

Part of me thinks that this is a lie. I will never be successful on my own. Another part of me thinks my personality cannot handle it.

I wish I could find happiness for days like this.

Am I happy?

What is this feeling that is gnawing my insides.

If I had 1 billion dollars what would I do with myself?

What are my passions?

One day I will die, we are all destined to die. What a huge weight that is. The lightness of being eludes me.

I feel like I am broken. Somehow my personality got out of balance.

I wish I could live in the present. Find joy in mundane things. Be focused. Keep working hard. Attain my goals and have fun getting there.

These feelings will pass I am sure.

For now I just have to endure it.

I don't think I have ever shared my actual dreams.

Here they are:

- Have an amazing, awe inspiring body and be healthy
- Financially Independent and Wealthy
- Be a great father/husband
- Be mindful / wise
- Cultivate great relationships
- Travel
- Write a self help book
- Change the world

I want to change the world, yet I have difficulty stayed focused at my work most of the day.
