---
layout: post
title: Journal 10/26/15
category: Practice
---

Weight: 275.4

Sleep: 7.5

Macros (P/C/F): 200 / 300 / 61 (goal 200 / 300 / 60)

Calories: 2549 (Goal: 2540)

| Exercise | Reps x Weight|
|:-----:|:------:|
|Rotator Cuff | 12x10|
|Bench Press	| 9x185|
|Incline DB Press | 9x40|
|DB Flyes | 11x35|
|5 min rest| |
|DB Concentration Curl |11x35|
|Straight Bar Curl | 11x60|

#Weekly Goals 10/19/15
- [x] Eat 2540 calories a day with multiple meals for 6 days
- [x] Try out the Dorian Yates type workout for a week and see how I feel doing it, 4 workouts
- [x] Beef up your gym tracking sheet to also include calories, weight, the dorian workout itself etc

Oh what? I accomplished all of my goals? What's up with that?

Technically I did only 2 workouts, I was sick in the beginning of the week. However I consider that goal a win since it was special circumstances.

Am I getting better at this?

The huge win of this week is that I did not really binge. I did not last week either. It seems that even though I liked the idea of LeanGains multiple meals are better for me in terms of compliance and binging. 

It does suck that I am slightly hungry throughout the day instead of fasting or eating a lot but it definitely makes compliance easier.

Now if I had only not eaten high calories on Sunday my weight loss would have been there. I hit 273.6 which would have been 2lbs of weight loss this week. Regardless it will happen this week and maybe more.

Weekly Goals 10/26/15
- [ ] Eat 2540 calories a day with multiple meals for 7 days (still not focusing on macros)
- [ ] Follow Dorian Yates workout for a full week. 4 workouts
- [ ] Write in your journals 3 times and meditate 40 minutes this week (I want to hit my monthly goals)

#ToDo
- [x] Weekly win/learn
- [x] Prep your meals
- [x] Write entry
- [x] Sweep and Mop all Floors
- [x] Gym
- [x] Macros
- [x] Mobility
- [x] Meditate 10m

Things have been going well. I feel a lot more balanced eating wise and I feel healthier for it.

The new workout style is similar to my LeanGains one. It actually covers some of the issues I had with the previous one.

Namely it's a bit higher in reps so I do not feel as much strain to my nervous system. Also it hits the muscles in a wider range so I don't have to worry about certain muscles being underdeveloped. This is a good thing from an aesthetic perspective but I suspect it also reduces the potential for injuries.

Having one minute rest between sets is pretty brutal. It definitely gives that pump feel that low intensity - high volume workouts aim for. At the same time I feel like I am actually tiring my muscles out.

My chest and biceps workout was pretty awesome, intensity wise it was not as high as Friday.

DOMS have been present for days now. Nothing horrible, but enough to let me know that my muscles were challenged last week. Speaking of which the leg day is brutal in this workout.

Last week I totally slacked off on the meditation and mobility department. I am so close to hitting my monthly goal that I want to push myself a bit harder this week to make it happen. My meditation went OK, but not great. I tried laying on the floor instead but I could not concentrate and did not dare to close my eyes in case I fell asleep.

