---
layout: post
title: Journal 09/15/15
---

##Stats
Weight: 275

Sleep: 7.5hrs

Macros (P/C/F): 242 / 318 / 54 (Goal: 240 / 270 / 40)

Calories: 2726 (Goal: 2400)

Physical Exercise: Gym


Leg Day

Exercise | Reps | Weight | Actual Reps
--- | --- | --- | ---
Squats | x3-4 | 330 | 3
--- | + 1 | 295 | 4
Calf Raises | x14-16 | 340 | 15
---  | + 2 | 310 | 17
OHP | x20 | 95 | 13


##Action


Today was a hard day. It was the first official day with my new work schedule. Switched from a regular 8am to 5pm to a 1pm to 10pm.


It was done out of necessity. My wife is pregnant and we had a scare last week that ended up with us going to the ER for about 7 hours. She was put on pelvic rest and it might end up becoming a full bed rest. She is only 14 weeks pregnant, which means we have a while. It seemed that the best thing I could do was help with taking care of the kids during the day. At 1pm they go to sleep and at 4:30pm she gets help with the kids. Oh and in case you are wondering, pelvic rest is code for no sex or masturbation.


So today I primarily spent time getting used to my new schedule and trying to figure out a way to fit in all the things I require from myself. My high level schedule looks like this


*6:30 wake up
*8:30 cleaning
*9:30 skrum
*10:45 cook for kids + meal prep
*1:00 eat / start work
*2:30 meditate
*4:00 eat
*7:30 gym
*9:00 eat
*10:00 done with work, get done at 9:30 on non gym days
*run?
*11:00 sleep


I also setup my weekly goals, even though they are a day late, it's Tuesday


Weekly Goals 9/14/15
*Lose 3 lbs, hitting 271
*Setup your blog domain / etc
*Write 1 well researched article in your blog
*Keep focusing on goal attainment and win/learn
*Meditate 5 times this week
*Make 5 comments on other blogs


But this is all theoretical work. The actual actions were cleaning the kitchen and living room. Taking care of the kids and playing with them for a while, made lunch for them etc. Worked. Went to the gym and took the kids for a date. Some mobility work.

Unfortunately I did not meditate.

I also setup my domain, added a blog on it and started writing this entry. For various reasons I will be posting my journal entries a day late. So today is Wednesday posting Tuesday's update.

My todo list for the day

- [x] Report helper class started and completed
- [x] Win/Learn from last weekly goals
- [x] Setup new schedule for
	Meditation
	Mobility
	Gym
	Run
	Cleaning
	Cooking
	Eating (gym should dictate eating macros)
- [ ] Work: Document on how to setup Design View and Create a report based on Helper class...
- [x] Setup jekyll + github 40m
- [x] Write Journal entry 20m
- [x] Date with the kids
- [x] Gym
- [x] Macros
- [x] Mobility
- [x] Meditate 10m
- [x] Time Card


##Self-Discipline


Primarily self-discipline revolves around placing my main goals and dreams before my current immediate needs and wants. Most of the time you will read about diet stuff, mainly because it requires the most self-discipline for me.


Overall things went well today until I took the kids out on a date. I wanted to have a little picnic with them and eat cookies and milk. In my mind I was not going to have any, but I decided to have one, which ended up being 6. This is pretty much what bumped my calories and macros higher than planned.


In a way I feel if I overcome my diet and eating challenges everything else in my life will be relatively easy. Is it an illusion? I wonder. Only time will show.


##Be Present


I did not meditate, always a disappointment when that happens...or does not happen.


Interesting discovery, when I set mini goals for myself and work against a limited time line I tend to get fully immersed on what I am doing. No multi-tasking takes place, no time wasting, no task switching, just me and my work.


I need to leverage that more. Absolute concentration on any task yields tremendous results and even enjoyment.


##Creative Gratitude


There was a moment at night, at about 9:30pm where I felt overwhelmed. I knew I was going to miss at least one of my habits, meditation.  When I went to the gym, leg day I felt a bit disheartened by the day. It felt so long and challenging.

At that moment, while working out I thought to myself, today was perfect, you did everything that was important to you...so I am grateful that today was an awesome day...may all days be as good and productive as this one.
