---
layout: post
title: Journal 11/02/15
category: Practice
---

Weight: 276.8

Sleep: 7.5

Macros (P/C/F): 223 / 285 / 65 (goal 200 / 300 / 60)

Calories: 2617 (Goal: 2540)

#October Goals
- [ ] Lose 4lbs, from 275 to 271
- [x] Write 9 journal entries (9 / 9)
- [x] Meditate a total of 100 minutes ( 100 / 100)

I did not lose the weight I was planning to since I decided to slow down and get my habits a bit more tight.

Even though in the middle of the month I decided to dedicate myself to my health I still managed to write and meditate as much as I needed to. The bar was set low so I kind of accidentally made it.

Overall this month went well. It would have been nice if I had lost some weight but the benefits are definitely there from taking the slower approach.

November Goals
- [ ] Be consistent with your diet. Hit your total calories of 2540 for 27 days this month
- [ ] Be consistent with your gym. Workout 13 times (4x a week + 1 for November 30th)
- [ ] Focus on being mindful during your day, be present instead of analyzing everything
- [ ] When you are tempted by food count to 100 before you eat it

For my November goals I want to continue focusing on my health to gain better consistency. This month has Thanksgiving in it, which is why I expect a few days that might be challenging. The rest of the time it should be relatively easy.

The count to 100 trick I came up with today. One of the issues I have is that I see food I crave an immediately put it in my mouth. Based on some research I did the best way to increase your willpower is by distracting yourself from temptation. Some preliminary self-experiments proved that to be true. It made me feel like I needed to add more of a gap between craving and eating. Counting to 100 is annoying and it also takes time. Today I started counting a few times, I don't think I counted over 18. Counting makes you not want to keep going.

Amusingly I have been trying to count to 5 and try to take action, and that also seems to be working.

#Weekly Goals 10/26/15
- [ ] Eat 2540 calories a day with multiple meals for 7 days (still not focusing on macros) (5 / 7)
- [ ] Follow Dorian Yates workout for a full week. 4 workouts (3 / 4)
- [x] Write in your journals 3 times and meditate 40 minutes this week (I want to hit my monthly goals) (Journal 3 / 3, Meditate 40 / 40)

This is interesting. I did not really hit 2 out of my 3 goals. I was close but not successful.

I have a huge weakness during the weekend. I think my brain thinks that since I get to be loose during the weekend I can eat whatever crap I want. That needs to change.

Counting to 100, mindfulness and everything else should help. We shall see how it goes.

Weekly Goals 11/02/15
- [ ] Eat 2540 calories for 7 days (0 / 7)
- [ ] Workout 4 times this week (0 / 4)
- [ ] Count to 100 every time you are tempted by food that was not pre-planned
- [ ] Be mindful. If you catch yourself thinking while doing something drop the thought and focus back on task

#Action

It's interesting that I journal less than I did when I was doing it in private. I think it's because writing something in public makes me feel like I need to go over my entries. Edit things for clarity, make my entries more readable.

In reality I am still writing for myself.

I need to get back to that again.

I feel like I have not been giving 100% to my work. Well I know I haven't.

It's obvious that this new schedule, no matter how convenient it appears it does diminish my actual work capacity. Pretty much I spend six hours taking care of the kids and then I work and go to the gym.

At this point I am not sure what I can possibly do about it. Maybe sleep more?

Not sure. It's bothersome though.


