---
layout: post
title: Journal 10/06/15
category: Practice
---

Weight: 275

Sleep: 7.5hrs

Macros (P/C/F): 267 / 179 / 45 (Goal: 280 / 102 / 57)

Calories: 2189 (Goal: 2039)

Physical Exercise: None

#Monthly and Weekly Goals - 10/5/15

My September goals were

- [ ] Lose 8 lbs, hit 267lbs (lowest 270.6)
- [x] Setup your blog
- [ ] Make 20 comments on other blogs
- [ ] Write 3 well researched articles in your blog
- [x] Establish a good goal evaluation and setup routine by taking action
- [ ] Meditate for 180 minutes this month (Current: 140)
- [x] Ping 5 friends (5 / 5)

These goals were set prior to scaling down my goals. Obviously I had too many goals and my weight loss goal was unrealistic for the month. It's possible to lose 8lbs in a month, but as a first time goal it was a mistake.

Blog wise I initially envisioned making a blog that would be split between theory and practice. In the practice section it would be my journaling, in the theory section there would be research based articles. The plan is still the same but I was planning on overextending myself.

Right now I want to scale my business ideas down and stick to journaling and trying to lose weight. Once that is handled better I can increase my workload.

My last week goals were

Weekly Goals 09/28/15
- [ ] Lose 1.5lbs, from 273.6 to 272.1
- [x] Make 3 journal entries this week
- [x] Meditate 20 minutes this week

Even though I hit 270.6 on Thursday by Monday I was at 277.8. Granted most of it is water weight but I do not want to count it as a success.

Lesson learned, when you make weekly and monthly goals pay attention to what's happening in case you have to make adjustments or keep things in mind.

This brings me to my new goals for the month and week.

October Goals

- [ ] Lose 4lbs, from 275 to 271
- [ ] Write 9 journal entries
- [ ] Meditate a total of 100 minutes


Weekly Goals 10/5/15

- [ ] Lose 1 lbs, from 275 to 274
- [ ] Write 3 journal entries
- [ ] Meditate 30 minutes

These goals feel easy for both the month and the week. That's the point. Now I got to make sure I meet them. Then next month they can be more challenging.

Let's keep on learning.

#Action

ToDo

- [x] Read: http://zenhabits.net/21-tips-on-keeping-a-simple-home-with-kids/
- [x] Write journal entry for today and combine the past thoughts to this
- [x] Monthly Goals update, weekly goals update
- [x] Research: Diet consistency, maybe with LeanGains
- [x] Macros
- [x] Mobility
- [x] Meditate 10m

I have been quite busy with work and life in general in the past few days. Part of me was afraid I was going to lose the habit I was building, even though I have been journaling consistently for about a year and a half now. This is a new medium, so it's a legitimate concern.

The past week I celebrated my marriage anniversary, finished a major project for work, took out the kids, went to the gym, attended a charity dinner (nothing fancy).

My diet for Friday, Saturday and Sunday was lose. I am losing my water weight yet again.

My birthday is coming up in a few days, turning 36.

Still trying to figure out how to be consistent. If October ends and I have not gotten better with my "hardcore" approach I will have to try the slow and incremental process.

Even though I did not past for a few days I still took some notes.

From Thursday, I think:

I just discovered the simplest, most pure form of taking action.

* Make a list
* Choose one thing from the list
* Work on it for 2.5 hours
* Repeat daily

I finally understand why I have good and bad days in terms of taking action. It also explains why my workout works so well for me.

I get it.

I have gained a more in depth understanding of what needs to take place in my life.

Since a few days have passed I can confirm this works well for me. In the past I tried to use small habits, like clean daily but for a smaller amount of time. There are benefits to both approaches it seems.

The do it daily approach builds a habit and it does not seem as daunting. The spend 2.5 hours on something feels really productive and I can get in the zone better. How that habit will work with doing things that need to be done remains to be seen.

Prior to this I tried to take strategic breaks and mix my work and personal habits. Basically I would work for 1 hour, meditate, then work for another 1 hour, do mobility etc. One of the things I noticed is that at times it would get to be 9pm and I had to pretty much sprint through all my personal habits.

Those sprints of hard work seemed to be very productive, a better word to use is probably productive. I was able to be really effective for one hour.

Now I don't really have a schedule but I try to spend one or two 2.5 hour blocks with work and then another 2.5 hours with my personal habits. Currently I time myself using [e.ggtimer.com](http://e.ggtimer.com/2hours30minutes). I like it because I can just simply append the time I want to countdown for by just typing it. If you say 15 minutes it will countdown for 15 minutes. Pretty simple and effective.

#Discipline

I wish I could say I did great for the last few days. Sunday was my anniversary and I am perfectly fine with not watching what I eat for that day, the previous two days though did not go as well.

I am trying on staying as consistent as possible. Even if I eat something I am not supposed to the plan is to stick to the program and hopefully minimize any damage done.

Going to the gym has been easier as the time progresses, I hope that my diet will be the same.

#Be Present

Usually when I am suby I don't meditate as much, it's a mistake for sure.

Meditated today, went well overall.

#Creative Gratitude

I am grateful that through pain I have learned how to be persistent.

I am grateful that even though my wife and I have differences of opinion in our life approach we still manage to stay in love after so many years.

