---
layout: post
title: Journal 09/19/15
category: Practice
---

##Stats

Weight: 275.2

Sleep: 7.5hrs

Macros (P/C/F):  Don't know, something around 2,800 with high sodium

Calories:  ?

Physical Exercise: None

#Action

Today started messed up from a diet perspective. I was hungry and I ate too much junk food while driving to pickup my daughter from grandma's house.

I am following an intermittent fasting program called LeanGains. In essence you fast for 16 hours and eat for 8. To put it even more simply it's skipping breakfast. If you ate noon to 8, that's intermittent fasting.

There is only one more complexity to it. You cycle your calories and your carbohydrates and fats according to the day. Workout days get higher caloric intake and more carbohydrates. Rest days get lower calories, more fat and a lot less carbohydrates.

Having done the 5 meals a day and Intermittent Fasting I like IF a lot. I used to feel like I was eating all the time and I was hungry all the time. With LeanGains I am either not eating or eating a lot. My meals are simpler to prepare as well since I do not have to concern myself with things like splitting my food intake by 5.

Frequency wise I still eat 3 times in 8 hours.

The problem I have noticed is that when I prepare food for the kids at 11, I am likely to snack on something. 

Even if that temptation is counteracted by starting my eating window at 11, I still have a problem to contend with. I workout out at 7:30 to 9:00 currently which means if I eat at 9:00 I am already outside my eating window.

For better or for worse I am very methodical and black and white with my thinking. If I am aware that I am breaking my diet somehow, even if it is the eating window I am a lot more likely to fuck it all up.

Granted I do, at some, have to deal with this quest for perfection. Even though I do not know if that means fully embracing it or totally letting go.

In the end my eating habits are just a tool to reach an end. I do not want to induce a neurosis. I realize that I talk about dieting frequently, actually everyday, but there is a reason for that.

It's a challenge that I have hit that has tested me more than any other challenge in my life. In a way it has become my nemesis. Something that pushes me to reevaluate myself and grow.

Without this diet idea I would have never gotten into going to the gym, learning about mobility, human anatomy, biomechanics, nutrition and Fitness.

Prior to hitting this wall I would have not called myself persistent or having grit. Now I simply know that I am persistent. Through my attempts of dieting and failing I developed a core virtue. If you stop and think about that for a second it will become obvious of how ground breaking that is.

Anyway, let's get back to diet methodology.

Things I learned / like about LeanGains

* Caloric cycling between workout and rest days makes sense
* I work better having black and white rules of eat and don't eat versus eat every 2-3 hours. In other words I prefer being hungry or full instead of always being hungry and always eating
* Meal planning consistency, always eating the same foods for my workout and rest days simplifies meal prep and calorie counting
* The approach of eating high protein everyday does help with satiety. Try eating 16 oz of chicken in one sitting and then claim you are still hungry
* Having high carb days is great,so are higher fat days. It allows for certain food indulgences in limited capacities. The 5 meal approach with no macronutrient cycling puts you in states of craving some foods that you can never have
* Focusing on some very basic core exercises with low reps allows to maintain and increase strength without the kind of body strain I experienced in that 4-5 day body splits, high rep workouts
* Working fasted has no effect for your workout if it's low volume and reps even if it is high muscle recruitment

There are probably some more positives, but that is all I can think of. Well there are health benefits of fasting. It reduces aging, increases certain good hormones and hormonal responses in your body etc.


Things I don't like about LG

* This is not an LG issue,but an approach one. Always eating the same  foods gets boring and leads to seeking alternative food sources for variance sake
* There is a high likelihood that if I break my fast early or get so hungry that I get overwhelmed and eat bad, that one bad meal cascades to a bad day. Even if that occurs twice a week it totally stalls any kind of progress I could make
* It can be disheartening to know that I have 4 more hours before I eat
* Rest days feel horrible and I almost never hit my caloric mark


While writing this I was also thinking about the positives and negatives of the five meals a day approach. I have pretty much done both approaches for a year, so I have a pretty good idea about both. In essence you get to eat more frequently. 

My thought was that maybe I could take the macro cycling, repetitive foods and strength training and use it for the five meals a day approach...but the thing is I really do not like eating that frequently.

Instead I need solutions to the disadvantages. Tweak them as I go and see how things pan out. My schedule changes so it makes sense to use this as a way to also address some of my current challenges.

> Repetitiveness of foods

Create a total of four food templates. Two for workout days and two for rest days. This will provide enough variance that I will not get bored with my food choices.

> Hunger leading to eating bad and unhealthy food

I have already implemented a rule of not eating more than 2800 calories which appears to be my maintainance calories. For the most part this rule gets followed even on bad days.

However I would rather have a change in my eating window than to eat unhealthy and backtrack for my weight loss. 

Theoretically there are some benefits of keeping your eating window constant. Your body gets used to eating foods at certain times and then sends the proper signals at the expected times.... However I rather mess that up occasionally than eating unhealthy.

I will move my eating window to be 11 to 7 instead of 1 to 9. Since I need to eat after working out, I am moving my workout time to be 5:30. In theory I will get done and start eating at around 

This change will address my issues with getting hungry while prepping foods for the kids and the I got so hungry in the morning I ate something stupid.

Of course there is a chance that it will be 8:30am and I will by hungry but a couple of hours of being hungry is not that hard to deal with.

The added benefit of this eating window is that my weekends will also be easier.

> Rest days are hard

My total calories right now are set to 1800 and 2400.  That means 3 * 2400 + 4 * 1800 = 14,400 calories a week or 2051 calories on average. Instead of having a 600 calorie swing I should lessen it.

On workout days I get pretty full so I can cut a few calories out of there. I am hesitant to go to 2051 for all days. It feels like I will be hungry on my workout days. At the same time if I just eat 100 calories more in my rest days I don't think that will get me that much more satiated. 

I will est at 2035 on rest days and 2100 on workout days starting on Monday.



#Self Discipline

Run out of time to finish these sections. More to come tomorrow.

#Be Present

No meditations. Tried to be present multiple times during the day.

#Creative Gratitude

I am grateful I have failed a lot in my diet, it allowed me to learn persistence and not giving up when things do not go my way.
