---
layout: post
title: Journal 09/27/15
category: Practice
---

##Stats

Weight: ?

Sleep: 7.5hrs

Macros (P/C/F): 211 / 232 / 36 (Goal: 210 / 236 / 35)

Calories: 2096 (Goal: 2100)

Physical Exercise: Gym

Leg Day

| Exercise         | Reps                | Weight      | Actual Reps |
| :--------------- | :-----------------: | :---------: | :-------: |
| Squats        | x3-4                | 335         | 3 |
|                  | + 1                 | 300         | 4 |
| Calf Raise           | x14-16                | 345         | 16 |
|                  | + 2                 |  310        | 18 |
| OHP | x2                  | 230         | 15 |

#Action

Today it was a good day. My all or nothing approach went well. There were at least four I stances were I would have partaken in eating food that was not part of my macros.

Gym wise it went OK. I am not progressing with Overhead Press. In the past I changed my 6-8 rep range to 20 reps hoping that I could make progress via volunteer instead of weight. No real progress is being made which implies that my muscles have remained static. I might have to change this to Arnold Presses or something else.

On other news everyone appears to be sick in my household. I did what I could to alevieate some of the stress and still managed to go to he gym which is awesome.

I also got called a fat fuck while walking on the street, while going to check on my neighborhood's gas station. To me it looked like they were about to get robbed. Turns into out that was not the case.

Regardless being called fat did not really disturb me, the insult was lessened even more since I was concerned about the gas station.

#Discipline

Today it felt like I made the right choice in going all in for my diet.

Let's see what happens on day three or four where my motivation wanes.

#Be Present

Nothing spectacular happened. It does appear I am more aware of others and my surroundings more. That's something I really like actually.
