---
layout: post
title: Journal 09/22/15
category: Practice
---

##Stats

Weight: 275.2

Sleep: 7.5hrs

Macros (P/C/F): 285 / 104 / 54 (Goal: 280 / 102 / 57)f

Calories: 2045 (Goal: 2035)

Physical Exercise: Sprint

6 x 20m with 2 minute break

Since the realization of embracing pain instead of trying to avoid it a major shift has taken place.

A lot of the issues I was trying to address became a lot more easier to handle naturally. It appears that I had already identified some of the side effects of that thinking, and worked on addressing them. Now that the root has been identified the side effects are almost not relevant.

For example one of my issues has always been researching for a really long time before taking action. For the last year I have been trying to focus more in taking action...this is why the reason of this section has always been "Action".

The need for research was coming from trying to avoid pain. Trying to figure out the best, most optimum way to do something.

Last week I mentioned that I was thinking about running or not. Yesterday I made the decision that running is bad for me due to my weight. I can tell by the knee and heel pain that surfaced since I started running.

The other concern I had about running was that a lot of people believe that steady cardio is bad for muscular development.

Turns out there is a whole scientific discipline devoted to this, called concurrent training. 

What they discovered was that running and fast walking actually decreases muscle mass. However sprinting and cycling does not.

The kicker is that sprinting even increases fat loss.

The decision was simple, start sprinting. If the weather is bad I will just Sprint on a stationary bike. Naturally, I wanted to learn the proper sprinting form.

In the old days, this would take me a week of analyzing a bunch of data, ideas and theories to find the best way of sprinting.

Instead, today I read a couple of articles, spent about five minutes looking at sprinting videos and tutorials and I am now set to do it.

I will learn through sprintin,g and I am sure questions will emerge that I will have to address.

The point is, no matter how much research I do, I will not get all the answers. Actually sprinting will get me to some answers quicker and create questions that actually matter.

#Self Discipline

Now that I have the approach stuff figured out there is one tweak I need to make. Instead of deciding if I should eat something or not in the heat of the moment, I just need to plan my day. If something crazy happens I can adjust a bit. My mode today was "can I eat this and still be OK for the day?"

That's not a good way of doing this. My food choices are in a bit of a flux the last two days since I tweaked my macros but regardless I should plan the day before I eat, not during.

This will eliminate the need to ask, and maybe setup myself to get tempted.

There is enough time in the morning to do this. Also setting up my two sample days for workout and rest days will simplify this by a lot.

Right now it's 11:13 and I am hungry. I consider this a good thing.

#Be Present

The later I meditate the worse my concentration is. At least I got it done.

During my date with the girls I had some good moments of presence.

I did walk for about 15 minutes during the day and my mind wondered heavily, which is not as good.

#Creative Gratitude

I am grateful that exposing a core flaw in my approach has allowed me to make progress.
