---
layout: post
title: Journal 09/23/15
category: Practice
---

##Stats

Weight: 273.6

Sleep: 6.5hrs

Macros (P/C/F): 233 / 223 / 52 (Goal: 210 / 236 / 35)

Calories: 2292 (Goal: 2100)

Physical Exercise: Gym

Back Day

| Exercise         | Reps                | Weight      | Actual Reps |
| :--------------- | :-----------------: | :---------: | :-------: |
| Deadlifts        | x2-3                | 395         | 3 |
|                  | + 1                 | 355         | 4 |
| Chins            | x4-5                | 240         | 4 |
|                  | + 1                 |  215        | 5 |
| Close Grip Chins | x8                  | 230         | 8 |


#Action

ToDo of the day

- [x] Mobility research for anterior pelvic tilt fix	
- [x] Write Journal entry for today
- [x] Gym
- [x] Macros
- [x] Mobility
- [x] Meditate 10m
- [x] Water plants

I have decided that I am going to skip writing down my work todos. They are mostly not relevant. I have a job, I have to do work stuff. I will still use them for my personal time management but no one else cares.

Well, perhaps no one cares anyway.

Still going strong after my realization of the pain principle. From past experience I know that my motivation wanes on day 4. That means tomorrow is important.

Right now I feel like a king. Hitting all my todos even when I don't feel like it. My gym, sprinting and diet have been pretty solid.

Overall it's a great feeling when I do the things I commit to. As a bonus my weight loss has been doing phenomenal. A drop in water weight occured this morning, which is not surprising. My body appears to retain water for two days after a binge, then it takes another day to balance itself out.

Sprinting yesterday went great. It felt weird doing it in the parking lot of my work at 9:30pm but it was the only place I had given how yesterday went. Taking my kids on a date during work time has been challenging, but I do not want my kids to suffer because I am helping my wife deal with pregnancy stuff.

#Discipline

I give myself a 9 out of 10 discipline wise. My diet has been really good but I am still slightly over-eating. One of the problems is I have never stuck with my diet for two weeks while counting everything I eat to have a basic metabolic rate I can actually rely on.

It would be nice to establish that, then I can figure out if I am truly eating too little. It's something I suspect based on how my weight loss goes when I do stick to my diet for more than a few days. However it would be nice to get a confirmation.

#Be Present

Meditated again. 10 minute meditation sessions almost feel too quick the last couple of days.

I did OK staying present during the day but my mind was a bit restless as work.

#Creative Gratitude

I am grateful that even when my motivation is not there I am disciplined enough to follow my daily habits for the past two days.
