---
layout: post
title: Journal 10/19/15
category: Practice
---

Weight: 275.6

Sleep: 7.5

Macros (P/C/F): 90 / 445 / 85

Calories: 2905

#Weekly Goals 10/12/15

- [x] Eat less than 2,800 calories a day for the entire week. (7 / 7)
- [ ] Write 3 journal entries ( 2 / 3)
- [ ] Meditate 30 minutes (20 / 30)

Well, my eating experiment went well, but it was pretty much a plan to stop binging. I was not hungry because I was pretty close to my TDEE. My weight remained steady, which I pretty much expected.

I got sick since Thursday morning which put a kink in my plans for my journal and meditation. However looking at my monthly goal I can still hit my meditation and entry goals.

While I was sick I had a couple of realizations. I have to decide on one thing and do that really well, then everything else needs to be put on hold until I master that domain well enough that it will be on cruise control for the most part. In other words focus on one thing until it becomes a pleasure to do and requires almost no discipline to do.

For me obviously that's health, gym and weight loss related. I need to setup some goals relating to fitness to keep my excitement and focus up. Journaling is part of that evaluation process but meditation needs to take a lower priority. 

This pains me a little bit, but I think it needs to be done for now. I need to subtract goals now so I can accomplish more in the long run.

Weekly Goals 10/19/15
- [ ] Eat 2540 calories a day with multiple meals for 7 days
- [ ] Try out the Dorian Yates type workout for a week and see how I feel doing it, 4 workouts
- [ ] Beef up your gym tracking sheet to also include calories, weight, the dorian workout itself etc

#Action

ToDo

- [ ] Setup mint with general buckets
- [x] Write entry for today
- [x] Win / Learn
- [x] Research High Intensity vs High Volume training, should I combine them both? Alternate per week? Go with Dorian Style training for now, higher reps same mindset as what you do currently
- [x] Read ESTJ stuff again
- [x] Reply to mom's email
- [x] Figure out Macros, step 2 of your weight loss process. Going with 2540 for now, 200 / 300 / 60 P/C/F Dorian based macros
- [x] Macros
- [x] Mobility
- [ ] Meditate 10m

I waste too much time doing research even now. I spent about 3-4 hours are work doing research for my new workout and macro stuff. Amusingly enough I am not even planning on using these macros until I get used to eating 2540 calories, which will net about 1lb of weight loss a week, theoretically speaking.

My todo list task capacity needs to increase, or more precisely it needs to be taken care of before spending time doing research. This also cuts into my actual work time, which is stressful.

#Self-Discipline

Last week my diet was a piece of cake since it involved just eating at maintenance. I like how I did not go over my maintenance. Now I need to learn how to be slightly hungry.

#Be Present

No meditation today. Need to get better at being mindful with others and how my words can affect them.

#Creative Gratitude

I am grateful that I have mastered persistence and look forward for things to come.

I am grateful that my wife gets emotional lately due to her pregnancy hormones, it allows me to get better at being empathetic and considerate.
