---
layout: post
title: Journal 09/17/15
category: Practice
---

##Stats

Weight: 273.4

Sleep: 7.5hrs

Macros (P/C/F): 194 / 345 / 64 (Goal: 240 / 270 / 40)

Calories: 2732 (Goal: 2400)

Physical Exercise: Gym

Chest Day

| Exercise         | Reps                | Weight      | Actual Reps |
| :--------------- | :-----------------: | :---------: | :-------: |
| Bench Press       | x4-5                | 270         | 3 |
|                  | + 1                 | 240         | 4 |
| Shrugs            | x4-6                | 255         | 6 |
|                  | + 1                 |  230        | 7 |
| Close Grip Chins | x10-12                  | 160         | 13 |



#Action

Sundays tend to be kind of slow for me. Took my wife out on a little date, just the two of us. Ate starting at 11 and it worked pretty well. My macros were loose, but my total were OK.

Did some cleaning, washed the dogs, got Legos for my daughter to play with and went to the gym.

My training session was weird today for chest. I kind of stalled on the second rep for Bench Press or maybe I got spotted too quickly, then for my third rep my spotter pretty much lifted it himself.

I could not tell if he got scared, I got weak or what specifically happened. Since he spotted me I did not even get to gauge how much muscular train I was experiencing. I left it at 3 reps. Maybe it was not in the cards today.

I know that my second set of 4 reps to as easy but who knows. My mind was not very present this gym session which sucked, but at these weights I need it to complete my heavy lifts.

The good news is that 255 for Dips was easy. If I got up 20 more pounds or lose some weight I will finally be able to do real dips.

Chin ups will be next. The gap is closing there as well.

Who knows, after I lose all the weight I might be doing chip ups and dips with 100lbs plates.

#Discipline

Yesterday I run out of time but I wanted to mention a rather large change.

Well in retrospect, large, might be a dramatic word to use.

We all have vices, things that make us feel good however sometimes those vices are so strong that we want to do them all the time.

For me, most vices are usually video games or websites. I played World of Warcraft rather heavily for years before all of this. Since then things still manage to sneak in.

My litmus test is simple, is this action productive? If it is not, the next question is, does this action give me so much pleasure that I disregard what's important to me to pursue it? 

Most people probably have never heard of a game called Hearthstone. It's a game by Blizzard the creators of World Of Warcraft that is basically a card game.

I thought it was a safe time waster when I got the app. I was wrong. I found myself getting consumed by it.

I uninstalled it the second day I had it, but then decided that perhaps I overreacted. Installed it yet again and promised myself I can just use it during my downtime.

Video games have always helped me cool down. It's because they are able to absorb me in so mentally I can relax quite a bit.

The problem arises when they do that too well.

I installed and uninstalled Hearthstone a total of three times in the last two weeks. Each time I felt I could control it, but I was wrong.

In the end that game is too good, so good that it makes me disregard things like reading, taking action or even interacting with my kids as frequently as I would without it.

It hurts to let go of something that is a lot of fun, but for me the downside is not worth it.

This is not the first or the last time I had to let go of something a genuinely liked so I can pursue what's important to me.

There are limitations of course. Sometimes only focusing on the goal can destroy the reasons why you set a goal to begin with.

For example the people that word a lot to provide for their family, yet they never see their family and they lose it.

Or people that start going to the gym to be healthy and suddenly start doing steroids and basically put their health at risk so they can get the physique they want.

You might be thinking that video games are lame or that would never happen to you, but self-assess for a second. Is there something you do almost mindlessly when you are bored? 

Is there something you do and then ten minutes later you are doing it again? It might be going on Reddit over and over again, it might be smoking weed when you are bored or habitually every night, maybe you just masturbate a lot. It could be something that you have been doing a while or just started. The question is does it help you? 

An even better question is what would happen if you did not do it for a week? 

#Be Present

No meditation today. I felt at peace and present multiple times during the day.

For whatever reason I was not very mindful at the gym, which is usually a good chance for me to be aware. I am not sure if it was because I ate right before I went there or what, but my mind wondered. I never hit that mind space I usually acquire when I am there.

Interestingly enough the gym did not give me as much pleasure as it usually does. 

#Creative Gratitude

I am grateful that I am capable of feeling pain and hope.
I am grateful that I have to sacrifice things I enjoy for things I dream about.
